# WW2-AirCraft-Analysis
The Douglas A-20 Havoc (company designation DB-7) is an American medium bomber, attack aircraft, night intruder, night fighter, and reconnaissance aircraft of World War II.  Designed to meet an Army Air Corps requirement for a bomber, it was ordered by France for their air force before the USAAC decided it would also meet their requirements. French DB-7s were the first to see combat; after the fall of France the bomber, under the service name Boston continued with the Royal Air Force. From 1941, night fighter and intruder versions were given the service name Havoc. In 1942 USAAF A-20s saw combat in North Africa.he solution to their problem was clear. Increase the armor on the plane's wings and body.  But there was a problem. The analysis was completely wrong.  Before the planes were modified, a Hungarian-Jewish statistician named Abraham Wald reviewed the data. Wald had fled Nazi-occupied Austria and worked in New York with other academics to help the war effort.  Wald's review pointed out a critical flaw in the analysis. The researchers had only looked at bombers who’d returned to base.  Missing from the data? Every plane that had been shot down.  But the research wasn’t a wasted effort. These surviving bombers rarely had damage in the cockpit, engine, and parts of the tail. This wasn’t because of superior protection to those areas. In fact, these were the most vulnerable areas on the entire plane.  The researchers’ bullet hole data had created a map of the exact places that the bomber could be shot and still survive.  With the new analysis in hand, crews reinforced the bombers' cockpit, engines, and tail armor. The result was fewer fatalities and greater success of bombing missions. This analysis proved to be so useful that it continued to influence military plane design up through the Vietnam war.  This story is a vivid example of survivor bias. Survivor bias is when we only look at the data of those who succeed and exclude those who fail.
